---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 3 - OiWorld
---

### Google Translate

Taking over from last week, Google Translate API support had to be finished. The problem of simultaneous HTTP requests was solved using promises. Google Translate supports a maximum of 128 sentences to be translated at once. In this case, sentence was equivalent to one word, I could only send 128 words at time. The solution was to divide the array of source words into chunks of 128 words and send all HTTP requests (`GET`) simultaneously.

Simultaneous HTTP requests will generate an array of promises. `ES6` provides native support for promises. It provides functions like `all()` and `race()`, which wait for all promises to resolve or any one of the promises to resolve respectively.

```javascript
var promises = [p1, p2, p3]
Promise.all(promises)
  .then((data) => {
    //data is the Object with responses to all promises.
  })
  .catch((e) => {
    // one of the promises failed
  })
```

The response data is *in place*. The only problem with this is that it is fast fail. Even if one of the promises fails (maybe due to network failure), it throws an error. To retrieve partial results would require more investigation, which I will do in the coming weeks.

### Automatic Context Menu Disabing

The extension has an activation button. It is like a switch which turns the extension on or off. If the Activation field was set to *OFF*, it logically entails that the context menus should also be disabled. This is also the case for blacklisted websites.

To achieve this, Chrome provides an `update` function for context menus.

``` javascript
// code to disable a context menu with id = menu_id
chrome.contextMenus.update('menu_id', {
  enabled: false
});
```

### Sentence Translation

With time remaining, I decided to start working on Sentence Translation feature. This allows the user to select a piece of text and click *Translate Sentence* to get the translation of that sentence in the selected language.

This invloved message passing between `content script` and the `event page`, synchronization of selected text and injecting dismissable popovers in pure javascript.

### Modularizing CSS file

Mind the word has a lot of CSS styles which need to be injected into the target page. These were injected one style at a time. As the number of styles increased, it created a lot of unreadable code. To solve this problem, I created a CSS file in the `/assets/css` folder and injected it dynamically.

**Note:** The Flash Of Unstyled Content (FOUC) is not an issue here as the translations take some time to be fetched. This is far greater than the injection delay.
