---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 5 - OiWorld
---

### Refactor Options page

The options page has a lot of UI elements and tabs. The corresponding HTML code was over 700 lines. This made it difficult to navigate and add new code. So I modularized the options page into tabs - each component (tab, footer, etc.) going into a different HTML file. All these files were put in an `includes` folder.

The HTML was included using Angular's `ng-include`. One problem was regarding jQuery initialization. All jQuery compnents have to be initialized. This is done using a function `setup()`. It was called before the `scope` had included the HTML files. As a result the JS components stopped working. To fix this, I added an `onload` event listener on every ng-include and called scope when fired.

### Automatic Blacklisting Words

Automatic blacklisting of words and websites is an important feature. To implement this, some design changes were required. I had to call the content script (`mtw.js`) on every `toggleElement()` call, to access the local storage. This was not possible with the current design as `toggleElement()` was in an injected JS file. As a result, I removed the JS injection and added this functionality inside `mtw.js`. A frequency list of maximum 100 words is maintained as a stringified `JSON`. When the frequency crosses a specific number the website/word is blacklisted.

As for the UI for automatic blacklisting, the user is given the option to change frequency thresholds for blacklisting and also turn off/on automatic blacklisting.

### Bug fixing and Style correction

I solved a couple of bugs regarding styling and detecting page refresh for context menus. All ESLint errors were resolved.
