---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 4 - OiWorld
---

### UI Improvements

As the number of features increased, the UI elements in the options page also increased. All of these were being put in the `Advanced Options` tab. This led to a lot of cluttering and users had to scroll a lot. I divided the navigation into the following tabs, so as to logically group features:

1. **Translation**
2. **Blacklist**
3. **Learning**
4. **Advanced**
5. **Backup** (added later)
6. **Contribute**

Other improvments invloved fixing panel heights and locking the scroll bar to prevent breaks in interface.

### Filtering Words

The `filter()` function was not removing words with punctutaion marks or special characters, even though there was code written to do so.

```javascript
var blackListReg = new RegExp(userBlacklistedWords);
var punctuationReg = new RegExp(/[\.,\/#\!\$%\^&\*;:{}=\\\_`~()\?@\d\+\-]/g);
var countedWordsList = this.shuffle(this.toList(countedWords, (word, count) => {
  return !!word && word.length >= 2 && // no words that are too short
    word !== '' && !/\d/.test(word) && // no empty words
    word.charAt(0) != word.charAt(0).toUpperCase() && // no proper nouns
    !blackListReg.test(word.toLowerCase()); && // no blacklisted words
    !punctuationReg.test(word.toLowerCase()); // no punctuation marks
}));
```

I spent a considerable time fiddling with variables and regexes only to realise that the culprit was a small semi-colon `;`. Did you see that? No! Right? Me neither [`line 7`]. So the fix was just to remove that rogue semicolon.

### User Defined Translations
One feature which was left out while refactoring was - *Limit to user defined translations*. The functions were there in the code, but they had to be connected. I found a bug in the old code - translations were being requested for user defined translations as well. This bug was resolved, added UI elements and corner cases checked.

*Do not Translate* button was added in the code and connected with the rest of the components.

### ESLint

Collaborating on a code requires everyone to code with the same style. `ESLint` helps in enforcing coding styles, raises parsing errors and indentation. It uses an `.eslintrc` file to set the rules and parser options.

### Backup Tab
I thought a useful feature for a user would be to reset all configuration (options) - in case something goes wrong. I was looking for a place to put the button and asked for Bruno's opinion. Bruno gave a brilliant suggestion to make a **Backup** tab - which would allow the user to Backup, Restore and Delete configuration data.

It was code sprint for a day and I implemented all the features using many JS functions like - `Blob`, `FileReader` to interface with files.
