---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 9 & 10 - OiWorld
---

### Redesign Options Page

The translation settings tab of the options page was redesigned to seperate the keys from the pattern creation. Also, the buttons were merged with the panel headers to make the UI consistent.

### Bug hunting and Fixing issues

1. Yandex long URI
2. Remove text decoration from social media icons
3. Fix dropdown menu width
4. Notify users if pattern already exists

### Activate New pattern

Previously, if a new pattern was created, it was just added on to the list of existing patterns. The user had to go and activate it manually. This was counter intuitive. As a result, we decided to automatically activate new patterns created by the user. This involved minor changes in the local variables.

### Translate one word per sentence

MTW's relies on the context of a word in a sentence, so that the user can learn a new language. If there are a lot of translations in one sentence, then the context might be lost. To reduce these cases, I decided to implement dispersed translations.

Soon, I realised that implementing word level dispersion will be very compute intensive and slow the down the extension by a huge amount. I had to make sure that my runtime was linear. As a result, I implemented *translating one word per sentence*.

Overview, I searched for all text nodes and split by `.` - a period. Then shuffled all the words of a sentence (using `lodash shuffle` function). I picked the first word for which a translation exists and replaced it. This gives me a **translate at most one word in a sentence** functionality.

```javascript
translateOneWord(paragraph, filteredTMap, iMap) {
  for (let i in paragraph.childNodes) {
    if (paragraph.childNodes[i].nodeType === 3) {
      if(!/^\s*$/.test(paragraph.childNodes[i].textContent)){
        let sentences = paragraph.childNodes[i].textContent.split('.');
        for (let j in sentences) {
          let words = sentences[j].split(' ');
          words = _.shuffle(words);
          for (let k in words) {
            if (filteredTMap[words[k]]) {
              let x = sentences[j].replace(words[k], iMap[filteredTMap[words[k]]]);
              sentences[j] = x;
              break;
            }
          }
        }
        var newNode = document.createElement('span');
        newNode.innerHTML = sentences.join('.');
        paragraph.replaceChild(newNode, paragraph.childNodes[i]);
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Fix easy whitelisting

For some strange reason, my commits (which were merged) got reverted without any conflicts. I could not find a reason for it, but I had to rewrite the code of `eventPage.js` to incorporate the easy whitelisting with new features added later.
