---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 6 - OiWorld
---

### Automatic Blacklisting Websites

Continuing with automatic blacklisting, this week, I implemented features for website blacklisting. For this I kept a track of the number of activation toggles in the popup page. Initially, I implemented it as a message passing mechanism, where `popup.js` sends a message to `mtw.js`.

I realised that this was rather inefficient as both of them share a common storage - `chrome.storage.local`. As a result, the new code was much less complex and readable.

One problem which was faced in automatic blacklisting is adding event listeners in `mtw.js` for `toggleElement`. Event listeners change the `this` variable in a function. So in the `toggleElement` event listener, the `this` variable no longer points to the class elements, instead it refers to the element from which the event listener was triggered. To fix this, you have to pass the original `this` targets as arguments.

```javascript
for (let i = 0; i < translatedWords.length; i++) {
  translatedWords[i].addEventListener('click', () => {
    this.toggleElement(event, this.wordToggles, this.autoBlacklist);
  }, false);
}
```

### Enhance `replaceAll` function

The `replaceAll` function is called on all `TEXT_NODE` elements to replace the text inside. But `<br>`, `<i>` and other such tags are also classified as `TEXT_NODE`. For all those elements `replaceAll` just returned blank, causing data loss. This issue was resolved.

### Manual Testing

To make sure the extension works correctly, and we have a set of tests to benchmark the extension, I made a list of manual tests to be performed. At the end of the development of period, all these tests will be performed to check all the functionality.
